---
layout: post
title: "Distant Viewing TV: Changing Scope"
categories: distanttv
---

Here we discuss our progress and changes in the project over the past 9 months.
While we have not been blogging, much has been progressing in the background on
our work. We also discuss plans and a timeline for future developments.

**This post is part of a series about the Distant Viewing TV
project. To see a full list of available posts in the series
see [Distant Viewing TV: Introduction](../dtv-introduction).**

The Distant Viewing TV project has undergone several major changes since our
last blog post. Our initial results from face and shot detection were presented
at the international DH conference in Montréal and the
Joint Statistical Meetings in Baltimore. We received great feedback from many
people, including DH colleagues, media scholars, and fellow computational
statisticians. Following these conversations, we decided to expand the scope
of our project under the name *Distant Viewing*. This expanded project seeks
to construct methods, theories, and software to facilitate the algorithmic
production of metadata summarizing the content (e.g., people/actors, dialogue,
scenes, objects) and style (e.g., shot angle, shot length, lighting, framing,
sound) of time-based media. Distant Viewing TV, our original study of US
sitcoms in the Network Era, is now a particular case-study within this larger
frame.  

In response to the changing scope of the project, we spent the Fall writing 
about the general framework of Distant Viewing as a method. We wrote a
theoretical article, "Distant Viewing: Analyzing Large Visual Corpora",
establishing a methodological and theoretical framework for the study of large
collections of visual materials. We then underwent a major rewriting of our
original project grant to include this larger scope and theoretical
underpinning. Finally, we expanded our case studies to a larger set with a 
much more diverse set of materials:

- early Hollywood feature films, with Jenny Oyallon-Koloski (University of
  Illinois-Urbana Champagne)
- mid-century educational films produced by the US Government Bret Vukoder 
  (Carnegie Mellon University)
- Network Era comedies Annie Berke (Hollins University)
- police procedurals Claudia Calhoun (NYU)
- local television news broadcasts, with the American Archive of Public
  Broadcasting

We hope that these case-study collaborations will lead to exciting new
scholarship in a variety of sub-disciplines. They also help use produce methods
and software tools that are useful to a wide range of applications in the
humanities.

With our article out, grant submitted, and collaborations in place we have
finally been freed up to work again on the distant viewing toolkit. For an
update on that progress, see our next blog post at: [Distant Viewing:
Frame Level Annotations](../dtv-frame-annotation).
